Hello everybody and welcome to reference gathering now references are incredibly important without references.
You're not going to be able to achieve the level that you want to do even if they're are tangential
references.
It really helps to have even photos or videos of the thing you're trying to make or similar objects.
So what I would always say is gather as much data as you can.
Initially you want a breadth of data Google Image Search.
Others work as well.
That's absolutely fine for inspiration.
If you're going for more of a stylized outcome looking at others work can help guide you with that.
Take a look at the large scale at this point in time we really want to focus on the large objects what's
the overall theme of what we're working with.
And of course there will be detail there.
However at the moment we're focused on the large shapes of the scene and the overall layout as well.
Now take note of the detail but try not to get too bogged down in it later on when we start refining
our models then we'll start looking at the detail.
Now one of the things I would really really recommend is real life.
It's there's no substitute for it.
So going visit places if you have the opportunity.
That's exactly what I've done with this project.
I've gone down the road in Lincolnshire in the UK and they have an absolutely amazing gothic cathedral
in the city of Lincoln.
So I've also included a load of references against this lecture is quite a big download.
I can't apologize for that because it contains a lots of photos but feel free to use those as your own
reference material.
But one of the great things about getting to a place in real life is you will get a better appreciation
of the project you're working on it also allows you to go around something in its entirety.
Sometimes you miss things when they're taken as a photo you can't get in there see how things are made
how things are put together how the texture on the surface reacts with the light sometimes a static
photo is not going to convey that.
A video might vote there's always a great idea to take a couple of videos as well while still there.
Now take more photos than you think you might need.
From every angle if possible.
And of course if something moves then using a video to reference it is a great idea.
But the other thing is just mentioned moments ago with video what you can do is see how materials act
depending on light sources and the angles they are to those light sources such as a reflective surface
will be incredibly reflective at a shallow angle.
But the further you look at it until it's perpendicular you suddenly lose a lot of that reflectivity.
Now if you actually take enough photos you may even be able to use photographic memory in your work.
Now photographic memory is simply taking hundreds of photos and reconstructing a three dimensional scene
from it.
Now we're not going to go into details a photograph Mitre is just not possible to do it in Blender itself
but we can certainly imports photograph imagery if we needed to have light.
So at this point jump straight into a challenge.
OK.
So gather the reference material that you need for your project.
Now this may not be Gothic church.
This may be a small industrial park.
It may be a classroom it may be a kitchen.
There's lots of different environments that you could be doing for this project.
Now continue to gather as you progress through.
So this isn't just the challenge for right now but as we go through the project you will find that you
need something else.
And when you do go out there continue to gather it's not just something you do at the very beginning.
It's something that you continuously do and be conscious of conflicting styles and designs.
It's very very tempting as you're covering in all of this material at some point you've got to separate
it out and just throw things away.
Be very critical when it comes to it if you picked up something you don't quite like it's anymore then
by all means get rid of it now.
Now how do you decide to keep all of this reference material.
I will leave that up to you.
Sometimes I've even printed out reference material because I don't have enough screen space.
So that's one of the options as well suppose a video now and give that a go
OK everybody welcome back bright.
I don't want to dive into too much detail of what I've done but what I will do is just go through some
of the information that I've managed to gather.
When I went over to Lincoln Cathedral Okay everybody say as you can see here I've got quite a few photos.
And that was one of the main things going through and just taking hundreds and hundreds of photos.
Now initially you can see here they happened to be of the exterior.
Now I decided to take photos of the exterior even though I was focused on the interior because there's
a lot design cues and of course when you're outside the lighting is much much better now because it's
a bright and sunny day.
There's a lot of direct lighting which unfortunately causes a lot of shadows but it also helps accentuate
any features but it can make other things difficult to see.
I mean one of the great things I think this is a door just here.
Let me bring this up.
Yes.
Look at that detail in this doorway.
Being able to have something like that on reference is absolutely phenomenal.
And each doorway is different.
Now of course if we were modelling this we would just model a simple door.
We would not put the rest of the detail but later on that's something we might start adding.
Let's have a look at some of the interior shots going on here.
So this has the stained glass window now I can tell you some things like this.
They're going to be incredibly difficult to model.
However it being further away and having the image.
Well there's no reason why can't projects that image onto a flat surface and then just put that in my
scene.
Lots and lots of options there.
Of course that zoomed into the detail and we've got some that are just a bit further back.
So there's lots of options that we could do here and some people may consider it a little bit of cheating
but otherwise I don't I see that as a way of forwarding our model.
There was some lovely detailing on the wall things like this.
I'm not really going to be able to focus on this level of detail.
However you can see there's so much intricate detail.
If you were making a photo realistic church in this particular style you can just see that this is probably
going to be a whole day's worth of work just making this one little piece of the church.
So wow there's so much that we could potentially be doing.
Let's have a look at the inside Wow just look at that ceiling.
There's an immense amount of detail now of course the ceiling itself is one of those things that we
may not even consider making if the view that we're using doesn't really focus on the ceiling.
We can keep it quite simple but of course I would want to have some level of detailing.
So it is an arched ceiling here's another example we've got the roof at the top here.
These wonderful multicolored pillars as well.
This really is a rich environment of texture of color and the loads of opportunities to make modular
parts.
And here I just want to show you one of the main windows in there.
Of course taking video as well gives you an idea of the scale of this place.
Absolutely phenomenal.
Really looking forward to cracking on with this.
If you're doing a similar sort of project as me then please do go ahead and share your work.
I'd love to see other particular styles from around the world if you're able to access things like this.
Be absolutely amazing to see.
Anyway I'm really looking forward to seeing your projects.
How are you constraining it.
I mean with a project like this you could literally spend years developing your models.
We don't have that length of time so how are you constraining it.
How are you keeping your project scope in check.
Share over in the comments and I'll see you all in the next lecture.